Part-3-manolobot-Nov22.md, before:

# manolobot



## Bill of Materials



| Qty. | Item                                                      | Image                                                        | Description                                                  | Link                                                         | Price         |
| ---- | --------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- |
| 2    | [12V DC  encoder motor kit](./BOM/motor_kit.md)           | ![motor_encoder_wheel_kit](./assets/images/motor_encoder_wheel_kit.jpg) | 12V DC motor JGA25-371 with encoder, 130rpm reductor, 65mm wheel, coupling, mounting bracket | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B07WT22RNK?psc=1&ref=ppx_pop_dt_b_asin_title) | 30,33€        |
| 1    | [Raspberry Pi 4B](./BOM/RPi_4B.md)                        | ![raspberry-pi-4-modelo-b-4gb](./assets/images/raspberry-pi-4-modelo-b-4gb.jpg) |                                                              | [Amazon]()                                                   |               |
| 1    | [Arduino Nano V3](./BOM/arduino_nano.md)                  | ![arduino_nano](./assets/images/arduino_nano.jpg)            | AZDelivery Nano V3.0 with ATmega328 Chip CH340 soldered version with USB cable (Arduino Nano V3 clone) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B01MS7DUEM/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&th=1) | 18,99€        |
| 1    | Arduino Nano Shell                                        | ![arduino_shell](./assets/images/arduino_shell.jpg)          |                                                              | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B08T1ZXS7K/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s01?ie=UTF8&th=1) | 6,99€         |
| 1    | [L298N Motor driver](./BOM/motor_driver.md)               | ![motor_driver](./assets/images/motor_driver.jpg)            |                                                              | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B077NY9RY6/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s01?ie=UTF8&psc=1) | 9,99€ (2 uds) |
| 1    | [35W Buck-Boost DC Converter](./BOM/buck_converter.md)    | ![buck_converter](./assets/images/buck_converter.jpg)        | ARCELI Buck-Boost Converter with display, DC 5.5-30V 12v to DC 0.5-30V  35W | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B07MY399GQ/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o02_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1) | 12,99€        |
| 1    | [5" 800x480 Resistive  Touchscreen](./BOM/touchscreen.md) | ![touchscreen](./assets/images/5inch-HDMI-LCD-B-intro.jpg)   | Waveshare 5" HDMI LCD 800x480 Resistive Touchscreen TFT Display  with Case for Raspberry Pi 4 | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B07PLF8V8Y?psc=1&ref=ppx_pop_dt_b_product_details) | 52,99€        |
| 1    | [DTOF Lidar LD06](./BOM/LD06-lidar.md)                    | ![LD06-lidar](./assets/images/LD06-lidar.jpg)                | LD06 Lidar, came bundled with Minipupper                     | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/innomaker-integrado-omnidireccional-resistencia-LiDAR_LD06/dp/B08GJJX41D/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_product_top?ie=UTF8) | 99,99€        |
| 1    | [Pi Camera](./BOM/pi_camera.md)                           | ![pi_camera](./assets/images/pi_camera.jpg)                  | Pi Camera v1.3 with acrilic support                          |                                                              |               |
| 1    | [Gamepad](./BOM/gamepad.md)                               | ![](./assets/images/gamepad.jpg)                             | PS4-compatible Bluetooth game controller. Mine came bundled with Minipupper | [Fnac](https://www.fnac.es/mp8198387/Mando-USB-con-cable-Smart-Gamepad-para-PC-PS4/w-4?oref=98dfe269-3c11-af3c-116a-61fe4db3ab7a) | 17,90€        |
| 1    | [Chassis](./BOM/chassis.md)                               | ![](./assets/images/storage_box.png)                         | Based on a 29 x 19 x 12.4 cm Keeeper Hubert + Hilda plastic storage box with tray, used for the chassis of the robot. I purchased mine in the local Leroy Merlin. | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.de/keeeper-Hubert-Hilda-Storage-Transparent/dp/B092JKYLW5?ref_=ast_sto_dp) | 8,63€         |
| 1    | [Battery](./BOM/battery.md)                               | ![](./assets/images/HRB_battery.png)                         | HRB Battery RC LiPo 5000mAh 11.1V 3S 50C XT60 Connector with 4 adapter parts. 308 g. | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B086JP7PCC/)       | 35,99€        |
| 1    | Balance charger                                           | ![](./assets/images/balance_charger.png)                     | WANGCL IMAX B6AC Lipo Battery charger B6 80W Digital LCD Lipo Cargador  11-18V con adaptador para plomo ácido NI-CD/NI-MH 1-6S LI-PO | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B0B3GM8KX9/)       | 42,99€        |
| 1    | [Mega4 USB Hub](./BOM/mega4.md)                           | ![](./BOM/assets/images/mega4.jpg)                           | UUGEAR MEGA4: 4-Port USB 3.1 PPPS Hub for Raspberry Pi 4B    | [The Pi Hut](https://thepihut.com/products/mega4-4-port-usb-3-1-ppps-hub-for-raspberry-pi-4) | £29,00        |

## First prototype (20/11/22)

- 12V from bench power source
- A split takes the 12V to the buck converter and the motor driver.
- Buck converter takes 12V at IN+ /IN- and yields 5V at OUT+/OUT- to power the RPi
- RPi takes 5V at pin 4 (5V)/ pin 6(GND) - [How do I power my Raspberry Pi](https://robocraze.com/blogs/post/how-do-i-power-my-raspberry-pi)
- Arduino Nano powered from RPi via USB
- Motor Driver is powered by 12V at 12V/GND pins. 5V jumper is installed, 5V terminal not connected - Could I use this to power the RPi?
- OUT1/OUT2 are connected to the Red/White of the motor. The remaining 4 cables of the encoder are disconnected.
- Connecting the IN1 / IN2 to 5V (e.g. to the 5V pin of the Arduino Nano, cfr. [the Nano pinout in this tutorial](https://diyi0t.com/arduino-nano-tutorial/)) makes the Motor rotate CV / CCV  



<img src="./assets/images/prototype_diagram.png" alt="prototype_diagram" style="zoom: 67%;" />

<img src="./assets/images/2022.11.20_first_prototype.jpeg" alt="first_prototype" style="zoom:80%;" />

### Shutting down

Before switching off the power supply, SSH into the RPi to shut it down:

```bash
(RPi) $ sudo shutdown -h now
```

Note: Powering the adafruit USB hub https://forums.adafruit.com/viewtopic.php?p=930206&hilit=external+power+usb+hub#p930206

## Prototype status (4/12/22)

- installed fuse and switch
- replaced split with AWG22 cable
- installed second motor
- connected Pi camera, LD06 lidar and LCD screen
- made a USB-C pigtail to connect RPi (powering from pins cannot run accesories)
- ordered spacers, USB-C pigtails, a flat HDMI cable and a USB hub

## Prototype status (28/12/22)

* installed flat HDMI cable, USB-C pigtail
* discarded USB hub (not needed)

<img src="./assets/images/diagram.png" style="zoom:80%;" />

<img src="./assets/images/2022.12.28_status_manolobot.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

## Controlling the motors with a joystick (4/1/23)

Code: [./arduino/motor_joystick/motor_joystick.ino](./arduino/motor_joystick/motor_joystick.ino) 

The script was originally inspired on [this example code for the joystick](https://www.luisllamas.es/arduino-joystick/) and [this script for controlling motors](https://lastminuteengineers.com/l298n-dc-stepper-driver-arduino-tutorial/), and later refined with [this implementation](https://howtomechatronics.com/tutorials/arduino/arduino-dc-motor-control-tutorial-l298n-pwm-h-bridge/) (using [Arduino's map() function](https://www.arduino.cc/reference/en/language/functions/math/map/) ) and [this discussion on translating joystick positions to motor speeds](https://coderdojoathenry.org/2019/02/24/hackers-how-to-control-a-robots-wheel-motors-based-on-joystick-movements/).

Notes:

* For motors A and B connect only motor voltage (WHITE, RED) to the motor driver L298N, keeping encoder disconnected (BLUE,GREEN, BLACK,YELLOW)
* In the motor driver L298N, remove the brakers in ENA and ENB 
* Connect as per following table and diagram:

| Description | Component pin | Arduino pin |
| ------- | ---- | ---- |
| Motor A speed (analog) | ENA  | D9   |
| Motor A direction | IN1 | D8 |
| Motor A direction | IN2 | D7 |
| Motor B speed (analog) | ENB | D3 |
| Motor B direction | IN3 | D5 |
| Motor B direction | IN4 | D4 |
| Joystick: command rotation (analog) | VRX | A0 |
| Joystick: command forward / backward motion (analog) | VRY | A1 |

<img src="./assets/images/diagram_joystick.png" style="zoom:80%;" />

* Analog output of VRX, VRY is in the range 0 - 1023. 
* Analog input of ENA and ENB in the range 0-255. 
* To change direction of rotation of Motor A reverse input to IN1 - IN2  from HIGH - LOW to LOW - HIGH
* Idem for Motor B, IN3, IN4

The script allows to control the motors with the joystick. Moving the stick in the Y direction turns both wheels forward / backward. Moving the stick in X direction moves the wheels in opposite directions to make the robot turn. The script also prints output through serial. 

## `miniterm` to monitor serial in the Arduino from the laptop (and through the RPi)

1. install `miniterm` in PC and RPi

```bash
$ sudo apt install python3-serial
```

2. add the user to the dialout group:

```bash
$ sudo adduser mhered dialout
```

3. usage:

```bash
$ miniterm

--- Available ports:
---  1: /dev/ttyAMA0         'ttyAMA0'
---  2: /dev/ttyUSB0         'USB2.0-Ser!'
--- Enter port index or full name: 2
--- Miniterm on /dev/ttyUSB0  9600,8,N,1 ---
--- Quit: Ctrl+] | Menu: Ctrl+T | Help: Ctrl+T followed by Ctrl+H ---
(X, Y): (508, 517) | motorA: 0% | motorB: 1%
(X, Y): (510, 517) | motorA: 0% | motorB: 1%
(X, Y): (510, 517) | motorA: 0% | motorB: 1%
(X, Y): (510, 516) | motorA: 0% | motorB: 1%
(X, Y): (510, 22) | motorA: -96% | motorB: -95%
(X, Y): (493, 0) | motorA: -100% | motorB: -96%
(X, Y): (510, 517) | motorA: 0% | motorB: 1%
(X, Y): (510, 1023) | motorA: 99% | motorB: 100%
(X, Y): (510, 1022) | motorA: 99% | motorB: 100%
(X, Y): (1023, 1023) | motorA: 100% | motorB: 0%
(X, Y): (1023, 850) | motorA: 100% | motorB: -34%
(X, Y): (1023, 517) | motorA: 100% | motorB: -99%
(X, Y): (661, 517) | motorA: 29% | motorB: -28%
(X, Y): (0, 517) | motorA: -99% | motorB: 100%
(X, Y): (0, 517) | motorA: -99% | motorB: 100%
...
```

Note: to stop `miniterm` with a Spanish keyboard press  `Ctrl + Alt Gr + ]` 

## VS Code Remote and Arduino extensions

Check out this video on how to write and upload to arduino from the laptop and through the RPi: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2BJ-iJF04VA

Highlights of the installation:

* Copy & Paste **only** the path of the folder where the `arduino` executable is, e.g. in the case below paste only `/home/mhered/Applications/arduino-1.8.19/`:

`````bash
$ ls -l `which arduino`
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 48 Sep  9 02:02 /usr/local/bin/arduino -> /home/mhered/Applications/arduino-1.8.19/arduino
`````

* No need to select a programmer, see [here](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/6125080065820-Select-programmer-in-Arduino-IDE)
* Edit `.vscode/arduino.json` to add `"output":"build"` to avoid the message that it cannot use precompiled files

Highlights of the usage:

* To launch **Remote SSH** click in the green square in the bottom left corner of VS Code, select **Connect to Host** and select the host, then enter the password
* Every new session: Open the Command panel with  `Ctrl + Shift + P` then start typing "Select" for **Arduino: Select Sketch**. The file `.vscode/arduino.json` stores the selection of `port`, `sketch`, `board`, `configuration`, `output` otherwise select manually in the lower blue bar.
* To compile: command **Arduino: Verify**. Monitor progress on the OUTPUT / Arduino window. Wait for it to finish before uploading.
* To flash: command **Arduino: Upload**. Wait for compile to complete before uploading. Does not work if `miniterm` is running.
* To monitor serial: use `miniterm` in a new Terminal

## Chassis (7/1/23)

* First test on the chassis

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.07_1st_test_on_chassis.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

  

* All aboard! - including the rubber duckie

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.07_all_aboard.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

## Details (12/1/23)

* Adding details: casters, grommets, a switch...

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.12_mechanical_assy.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

  

* All the electronics back in

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.12_electronics_in.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

## Order in the house (17/1/23)

* Some order inside the chassis:

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.17_order_in_the_house.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

## Selfie  (21/1/23)

* A selfie to celebrate that the camera onboard the `manolobot_uno ` is broadcasting!

<img src="./assets/images/selfie.png" style="zoom:80%;" />



## Status (29/01/23)

* Screen, safe reset/shutdown button and 3D printed camera support

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.29_status_3.jpg" style="zoom:80%;" />

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.29_status_2.jpg" style="zoom:80%;" />

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.29_status_5.jpg" style="zoom:80%;" />

## To do

- [x] connect motors 
- [x] install and test basic motor software
- [x] configure and test camera
- [x] configure and test lidar
- [x] purchase and install battery
- [x] soft powerdown button
- [x] USB hub
- [x] solve issues with screen
- [x] 3D printed parts
- [ ] connect and test encoders
- [ ] command motor through ROS 
- [ ] improve layout of components inside chassis
- [ ] configure face in screen

Commit message:

Control motors from PC, with wiring  diagram. Lower resolution of all diagrams.

Part-3-manolobot-Nov22.md, after:

# manolobot



## Bill of Materials



| Qty. | Item                                                      | Image                                                        | Description                                                  | Link                                                         | Price         |
| ---- | --------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- |
| 2    | [12V DC  encoder motor kit](./BOM/motor_kit.md)           | ![motor_encoder_wheel_kit](./assets/images/motor_encoder_wheel_kit.jpg) | 12V DC motor JGA25-371 with encoder, 130rpm reductor, 65mm wheel, coupling, mounting bracket | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B07WT22RNK?psc=1&ref=ppx_pop_dt_b_asin_title) | 30,33€        |
| 1    | [Raspberry Pi 4B](./BOM/RPi_4B.md)                        | ![raspberry-pi-4-modelo-b-4gb](./assets/images/raspberry-pi-4-modelo-b-4gb.jpg) |                                                              | [Amazon]()                                                   |               |
| 1    | [Arduino Nano V3](./BOM/arduino_nano.md)                  | ![arduino_nano](./assets/images/arduino_nano.jpg)            | AZDelivery Nano V3.0 with ATmega328 Chip CH340 soldered version with USB cable (Arduino Nano V3 clone) | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B01MS7DUEM/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s00?ie=UTF8&th=1) | 18,99€        |
| 1    | Arduino Nano Shell                                        | ![arduino_shell](./assets/images/arduino_shell.jpg)          |                                                              | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B08T1ZXS7K/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s01?ie=UTF8&th=1) | 6,99€         |
| 1    | [L298N Motor driver](./BOM/motor_driver.md)               | ![motor_driver](./assets/images/motor_driver.jpg)            |                                                              | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B077NY9RY6/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o00_s01?ie=UTF8&psc=1) | 9,99€ (2 uds) |
| 1    | [35W Buck-Boost DC Converter](./BOM/buck_converter.md)    | ![buck_converter](./assets/images/buck_converter.jpg)        | ARCELI Buck-Boost Converter with display, DC 5.5-30V 12v to DC 0.5-30V  35W | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B07MY399GQ/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_asin_title_o02_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1) | 12,99€        |
| 1    | [5" 800x480 Resistive  Touchscreen](./BOM/touchscreen.md) | ![touchscreen](./assets/images/5inch-HDMI-LCD-B-intro.jpg)   | Waveshare 5" HDMI LCD 800x480 Resistive Touchscreen TFT Display  with Case for Raspberry Pi 4 | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/dp/B07PLF8V8Y?psc=1&ref=ppx_pop_dt_b_product_details) | 52,99€        |
| 1    | [DTOF Lidar LD06](./BOM/LD06-lidar.md)                    | ![LD06-lidar](./assets/images/LD06-lidar.jpg)                | LD06 Lidar, came bundled with Minipupper                     | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/innomaker-integrado-omnidireccional-resistencia-LiDAR_LD06/dp/B08GJJX41D/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_product_top?ie=UTF8) | 99,99€        |
| 1    | [Pi Camera](./BOM/pi_camera.md)                           | ![pi_camera](./assets/images/pi_camera.jpg)                  | Pi Camera v1.3 with acrilic support                          |                                                              |               |
| 1    | [Gamepad](./BOM/gamepad.md)                               | ![](./assets/images/gamepad.jpg)                             | PS4-compatible Bluetooth game controller. Mine came bundled with Minipupper | [Fnac](https://www.fnac.es/mp8198387/Mando-USB-con-cable-Smart-Gamepad-para-PC-PS4/w-4?oref=98dfe269-3c11-af3c-116a-61fe4db3ab7a) | 17,90€        |
| 1    | [Chassis](./BOM/chassis.md)                               | ![](./assets/images/storage_box.png)                         | Based on a 29 x 19 x 12.4 cm Keeeper Hubert + Hilda plastic storage box with tray, used for the chassis of the robot. I purchased mine in the local Leroy Merlin. | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.de/keeeper-Hubert-Hilda-Storage-Transparent/dp/B092JKYLW5?ref_=ast_sto_dp) | 8,63€         |
| 1    | [Battery](./BOM/battery.md)                               | ![](./assets/images/HRB_battery.png)                         | HRB Battery RC LiPo 5000mAh 11.1V 3S 50C XT60 Connector with 4 adapter parts. 308 g. | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B086JP7PCC/)       | 35,99€        |
| 1    | Balance charger                                           | ![](./assets/images/balance_charger.png)                     | WANGCL IMAX B6AC Lipo Battery charger B6 80W Digital LCD Lipo Cargador  11-18V con adaptador para plomo ácido NI-CD/NI-MH 1-6S LI-PO | [Amazon](https://www.amazon.es/gp/product/B0B3GM8KX9/)       | 42,99€        |
| 1    | [Mega4 USB Hub](./BOM/mega4.md)                           | ![](./BOM/assets/images/mega4.jpg)                           | UUGEAR MEGA4: 4-Port USB 3.1 PPPS Hub for Raspberry Pi 4B    | [The Pi Hut](https://thepihut.com/products/mega4-4-port-usb-3-1-ppps-hub-for-raspberry-pi-4) | £29,00        |

## First prototype (20/11/22)

- 12V from bench power source
- A split takes the 12V to the buck converter and the motor driver.
- Buck converter takes 12V at IN+ /IN- and yields 5V at OUT+/OUT- to power the RPi
- RPi takes 5V at pin 4 (5V)/ pin 6(GND) - [How do I power my Raspberry Pi](https://robocraze.com/blogs/post/how-do-i-power-my-raspberry-pi)
- Arduino Nano powered from RPi via USB
- Motor Driver is powered by 12V at 12V/GND pins. 5V jumper is installed, 5V terminal not connected - Could I use this to power the RPi?
- OUT1/OUT2 are connected to the Red/White of the motor. The remaining 4 cables of the encoder are disconnected.
- Connecting the IN1 / IN2 to 5V (e.g. to the 5V pin of the Arduino Nano, cfr. [the Nano pinout in this tutorial](https://diyi0t.com/arduino-nano-tutorial/)) makes the Motor rotate CV / CCV  



<img src="./assets/images/prototype_diagram.png" alt="prototype_diagram" style="zoom: 67%;" />

<img src="./assets/images/2022.11.20_first_prototype.jpeg" alt="first_prototype" style="zoom:80%;" />

### Shutting down

Before switching off the power supply, SSH into the RPi to shut it down:

```bash
(RPi) $ sudo shutdown -h now
```

Note: Powering the adafruit USB hub https://forums.adafruit.com/viewtopic.php?p=930206&hilit=external+power+usb+hub#p930206

## Prototype status (4/12/22)

- installed fuse and switch
- replaced split with AWG22 cable
- installed second motor
- connected Pi camera, LD06 lidar and LCD screen
- made a USB-C pigtail to connect RPi (powering from pins cannot run accesories)
- ordered spacers, USB-C pigtails, a flat HDMI cable and a USB hub

## Prototype status (28/12/22)

* installed flat HDMI cable, USB-C pigtail
* discarded USB hub (not needed)

![](./assets/images/diagram.png)

<img src="./assets/images/2022.12.28_status_manolobot.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

## Controlling the motors with a joystick (4/1/23)

Code: [./code/arduino/motor_joystick/motor_joystick.ino](./code/arduino/motor_joystick/motor_joystick.ino) 

The script was originally inspired on [this example code for the joystick](https://www.luisllamas.es/arduino-joystick/) and [this script for controlling motors](https://lastminuteengineers.com/l298n-dc-stepper-driver-arduino-tutorial/), and later refined with [this implementation](https://howtomechatronics.com/tutorials/arduino/arduino-dc-motor-control-tutorial-l298n-pwm-h-bridge/) (using [Arduino's map() function](https://www.arduino.cc/reference/en/language/functions/math/map/) ) and [this discussion on translating joystick positions to motor speeds](https://coderdojoathenry.org/2019/02/24/hackers-how-to-control-a-robots-wheel-motors-based-on-joystick-movements/).

Notes:

* For motors A and B connect only motor voltage (WHITE, RED) to the motor driver L298N, keeping encoder disconnected (BLUE,GREEN, BLACK,YELLOW)
* In the motor driver L298N, remove the brakers in ENA and ENB 
* Connect as per following table and diagram:

| Description | Component pin | Arduino pin |
| ------- | ---- | ---- |
| Motor A speed (analog) | ENA  | D9   |
| Motor A direction | IN1 | D8 |
| Motor A direction | IN2 | D7 |
| Motor B speed (analog) | ENB | D3 |
| Motor B direction | IN3 | D5 |
| Motor B direction | IN4 | D4 |
| Joystick: command rotation (analog) | VRX | A0 |
| Joystick: command forward / backward motion (analog) | VRY | A1 |

![](./assets/images/diagram_joystick.png)

* Analog output of VRX, VRY is in the range 0 - 1023. 
* Analog input of ENA and ENB in the range 0-255. 
* To change direction of rotation of Motor A reverse input to IN1 - IN2  from HIGH - LOW to LOW - HIGH
* Idem for Motor B, IN3, IN4

The script allows to control the motors with the joystick. Moving the stick in the Y direction turns both wheels forward / backward. Moving the stick in X direction moves the wheels in opposite directions to make the robot turn. The script also prints output through serial. 

## `miniterm` to monitor serial in the Arduino from the laptop (and through the RPi)

1. install `miniterm` in PC and RPi

```bash
$ sudo apt install python3-serial
```

2. add the user to the dialout group:

```bash
$ sudo adduser mhered dialout
```

3. usage:

```bash
$ miniterm

--- Available ports:
---  1: /dev/ttyAMA0         'ttyAMA0'
---  2: /dev/ttyUSB0         'USB2.0-Ser!'
--- Enter port index or full name: 2
--- Miniterm on /dev/ttyUSB0  9600,8,N,1 ---
--- Quit: Ctrl+] | Menu: Ctrl+T | Help: Ctrl+T followed by Ctrl+H ---
(X, Y): (508, 517) | motorA: 0% | motorB: 1%
(X, Y): (510, 517) | motorA: 0% | motorB: 1%
(X, Y): (510, 517) | motorA: 0% | motorB: 1%
(X, Y): (510, 516) | motorA: 0% | motorB: 1%
(X, Y): (510, 22) | motorA: -96% | motorB: -95%
(X, Y): (493, 0) | motorA: -100% | motorB: -96%
(X, Y): (510, 517) | motorA: 0% | motorB: 1%
(X, Y): (510, 1023) | motorA: 99% | motorB: 100%
(X, Y): (510, 1022) | motorA: 99% | motorB: 100%
(X, Y): (1023, 1023) | motorA: 100% | motorB: 0%
(X, Y): (1023, 850) | motorA: 100% | motorB: -34%
(X, Y): (1023, 517) | motorA: 100% | motorB: -99%
(X, Y): (661, 517) | motorA: 29% | motorB: -28%
(X, Y): (0, 517) | motorA: -99% | motorB: 100%
(X, Y): (0, 517) | motorA: -99% | motorB: 100%
...
```

Note: to stop `miniterm` with a Spanish keyboard press  `Ctrl + Alt Gr + ]` 

## VS Code Remote and Arduino extensions

Check out this video on how to write and upload to arduino from the laptop and through the RPi: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2BJ-iJF04VA

Highlights of the installation:

* Copy & Paste **only** the path of the folder where the `arduino` executable is, e.g. in the case below paste only `/home/mhered/Applications/arduino-1.8.19/`:

`````bash
$ ls -l `which arduino`
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 48 Sep  9 02:02 /usr/local/bin/arduino -> /home/mhered/Applications/arduino-1.8.19/arduino
`````

* No need to select a programmer, see [here](https://support.arduino.cc/hc/en-us/articles/6125080065820-Select-programmer-in-Arduino-IDE)
* Edit `.vscode/arduino.json` to add `"output":"build"` to avoid the message that it cannot use precompiled files

Highlights of the usage:

* To launch **Remote SSH** click in the green square in the bottom left corner of VS Code, select **Connect to Host** and select the host, then enter the password
* Every new session: Open the Command panel with  `Ctrl + Shift + P` then start typing "Select" for **Arduino: Select Sketch**. The file `.vscode/arduino.json` stores the selection of `port`, `sketch`, `board`, `configuration`, `output` otherwise select manually in the lower blue bar.
* To compile: command **Arduino: Verify**. Monitor progress on the OUTPUT / Arduino window. Wait for it to finish before uploading.
* To flash: command **Arduino: Upload**. Wait for compile to complete before uploading. Does not work if `miniterm` is running.
* To monitor serial: use `miniterm` in a new Terminal

## Chassis (7/1/23)

* First test on the chassis

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.07_1st_test_on_chassis.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

  

* All aboard! - including the rubber duckie

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.07_all_aboard.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

## Details (12/1/23)

* Adding details: casters, grommets, a switch...

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.12_mechanical_assy.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

  

* All the electronics back in

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.12_electronics_in.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

## Order in the house (17/1/23)

* Some order inside the chassis:

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.17_order_in_the_house.jpeg" style="zoom:80%;" />

## Selfie  (21/1/23)

* A selfie to celebrate that the camera onboard the `manolobot_uno ` is broadcasting!

<img src="./assets/images/selfie.png" style="zoom:80%;" />



## Prototype status (29/01/23)

* Screen, safe reset/shutdown button and 3D printed camera support

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.29_status_3.jpg" style="zoom:80%;" />

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.29_status_2.jpg" style="zoom:80%;" />

<img src="./assets/images/2023.01.29_status_5.jpg" style="zoom:80%;" />



## Running motors from the PC (31.01.23)

1. Cloned `ROSArduinoBridge` from https://github.com/joshnewans/ros_arduino_bridge.git to `./code/arduino/` and removed the `.git` folder to disconnect it from original repo
2. Uploaded software to the Arduino
3. Rewired Arduino:

![](./assets/images/diagram_bridge.png)

4. Run `miniterm` to test it (`-e` for interactive and specify the baud rate or it won't work at 9600):

```bash
(RPi):$ $ miniterm -e /dev/ttyUSB0 57600
--- Miniterm on /dev/ttyUSB0  57600,8,N,1 ---
--- Quit: Ctrl+] | Menu: Ctrl+T | Help: Ctrl+T followed by Ctrl+H ---
o 150 150
OK
o -200 200
OK
--- exit ---
```



## To do

- [x] connect motors 
- [x] install and test basic motor software
- [x] configure and test camera
- [x] configure and test lidar
- [x] purchase and install battery
- [x] soft powerdown button
- [x] USB hub
- [x] solve issues with screen
- [x] 3D printed parts
- [ ] connect and test encoders
- [ ] command motor through ROS 
- [ ] improve layout of components inside chassis
- [ ] configure face in screen
